.TH TP-LINT 1 "February 2026" "tp-lint 1.5.8" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tp-lint \- Translation Project linter and statistics tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tp-lint
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fILANG\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tp-lint
checks translation status against the GNU Translation Project matrix.
Shows coverage statistics, generates reports, and runs l10n-lint on PO files.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Show version number and exit.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list
List all available languages.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-stats " " [\fILANG\fR]
Show translation statistics. Without LANG shows global stats.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-domain " " \fIPKG\fR
Show statistics for specific package/domain, or filter linting to this package.
.TP
.BR \-L ", " \-\-lint
Run l10n-lint on downloaded PO files. Requires l10n-lint to be installed.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-package " " \fIPKG\fR
Only lint specific package(s). Can be repeated.
.TP
.BR \-\-top " " \fIN\fR
Number of items in top/bottom lists (default: 10).
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-report " " [\fILANG\fR]
Generate translation status report.
.TP
.BR \-\-report\-format " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Report format: markdown (default), html
.TP
.BR \-\-report\-output " " \fIFILE\fR
Save report to file instead of stdout.
.TP
.BR \-\-format " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Output format: text (default), json
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-verbose
Show detailed progress.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
List all available languages:
.B tp-lint -l
.TP
Show global translation statistics:
.B tp-lint -s
.TP
Show statistics for Swedish:
.B tp-lint -s sv
.TP
Download Swedish PO files:
.B tp-lint sv
.TP
Download and lint all Swedish PO files:
.B tp-lint -L sv
.TP
Lint only coreutils for Swedish:
.B tp-lint -L -d coreutils sv
.TP
Generate HTML report for German:
.B tp-lint -r de --report-format html --report-output de.html
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred or lint issues found.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR l10n-lint (1),
.BR po-translate (1),
.BR msgfmt (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Daniel Nylander <daniel@danielnylander.se>
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/yeager/tp-lint/issues
