.TH TP-LINT 1 "February 2026" "tp-lint 1.8.3" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tp\-lint \- lint translations from the Translation Project (TP)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tp\-lint
[\fILANGUAGE\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtp\-lint\fR downloads and lints PO files from the GNU Translation
Project (translationproject.org). It fetches translation files for a
given language, runs l10n\-lint quality checks, and provides statistics
and reports.
.PP
The tool downloads PO files to a temporary directory (or a specified
output directory), then analyzes them using l10n\-lint's checking engine.
Results can be grouped by package or by translator.
.PP
Exit codes: 0 = no errors, 1 = errors found, 2 = usage error.
.SH POSITIONAL ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I LANGUAGE
Language code to lint (e.g., \fBsv\fR, \fBde\fR, \fBfr\fR). If omitted,
some options like \fB\-\-list\fR and \fB\-\-stats\fR work without it.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\fR
List all available languages on the Translation Project. Displays
language codes and names.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-stats\fR [\fILANG\fR]
Show translation statistics. Without a language argument, shows global
statistics across all languages. With a language code, shows detailed
statistics for that language including number of translated packages,
completion percentages, and top translators.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-domain\fR \fIPACKAGE\fR
Show statistics for a specific package/domain across all languages.
Example: \fB\-\-domain coreutils\fR shows translation status for GNU
coreutils in all languages.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-top\fR \fIN\fR
Number of items to show in top lists (most translated packages, top
translators, etc.). Default: 15.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-report\fR [\fILANG\fR]
Generate a detailed report. Without a language argument, generates a
global report. With a language code, generates a language\-specific
report with per\-package quality scores.
.TP
\fB\-\-report\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR
Report output format. Choices: \fBmarkdown\fR (default), \fBhtml\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-report\-output\fR \fIFILE\fR
Save report to a file instead of printing to stdout.
.TP
\fB\-j\fR, \fB\-\-json\fR
Output results as JSON. Shorthand for \fB\-\-format json\fR.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Suppress non\-essential output. Only errors are shown.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR
Output format. Choices: \fBtext\fR (default, human\-readable),
\fBjson\fR (structured output), \fBgithub\fR (GitHub Actions annotations).
.TP
\fB\-\-strict\fR
Treat warnings as errors. Useful for CI pipelines.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-keep\fR
Keep downloaded PO files after linting. By default, the temporary
directory is deleted when done.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR \fIDIR\fR
Output directory for downloaded PO files. Implies \fB\-\-keep\fR.
Useful for archiving or further manual review.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-package\fR \fIPACKAGE\fR
Only lint specific package(s). Can be specified multiple times:
\fB\-p coreutils \-p bash\fR. Other packages are skipped.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-lint\fR
Download PO files only, do not run lint checks. Useful with \fB\-o\fR
to just fetch files for manual review.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-by\-translator\fR
Group lint results by translator (from the PO file Last\-Translator
header) instead of by package. Useful for identifying translators
who may need guidance.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Show detailed progress including each file being downloaded and checked.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version number and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
No lint errors found.
.TP
.B 1
Lint errors found (or warnings with \fB\-\-strict\fR).
.TP
.B 2
Usage error or download failure.
.SH EXAMPLES
Lint all Swedish translations from the Translation Project:
.PP
.RS
.nf
tp\-lint sv
.fi
.RE
.PP
List all available languages:
.PP
.RS
.nf
tp\-lint \-\-list
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show Swedish translation statistics:
.PP
.RS
.nf
tp\-lint \-\-stats sv
.fi
.RE
.PP
Lint only coreutils and bash, keep the files:
.PP
.RS
.nf
tp\-lint sv \-p coreutils \-p bash \-\-keep
.fi
.RE
.PP
Generate an HTML report:
.PP
.RS
.nf
tp\-lint sv \-\-report \-\-report\-format html \-\-report\-output report.html
.fi
.RE
.PP
Group results by translator:
.PP
.RS
.nf
tp\-lint sv \-\-by\-translator
.fi
.RE
.PP
Download files without linting:
.PP
.RS
.nf
tp\-lint sv \-\-no\-lint \-o /tmp/tp\-sv/
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR l10n\-lint (1),
.BR po\-translate (1),
.BR po\-diff (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Daniel Nylander <daniel@danielnylander.se>
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/yeager/tp\-lint/issues
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 Daniel Nylander. License: GPL\-3.0\-or\-later.
